Parmanode 1.1 - Not yet ready. Working on Mac OS support.

Parmanode 1.0 - Plebian Edition: README
See tag v1.0.1
08/April/2023


ABOUT

Parmanode is a software package for home computers (Linux, Mac, or Windows)
that comes with an installation wizard so that non-technical users have
the ability to download and verify Bitcoin Core and sync using an external 
or internal drive, and also have configuration options presented to them
with automation. No manual bitcoin.conf file editing will be required.

This edition is for Linux Only.

The aim is that all people need to do is read the menu options carefully - 
no command line interaction is required. For example, bitcoin-cli commands
are available in a menu, and pruning can be activated from menu options.

The software also comes with helpful information, including links to various
articles on my website, armantheparmn.com, so that Bitcoiners keep learning
more about Bitcoin and how to be safely self-sovereign. Information on how 
to connect various wallets to the node is provided in the menus. Much effort
has not been made for this aspect of the software in the first version; more
will be done later.

The most basic usage would be an internal drive to sync, running the latest
version of Bitcoin Core, and connecting Sparrow Bitcoin Wallet or Specter
Desktop Wallet directly to the node on the same computer.

The initial release is for the Linux user only, and although they are the
ones least likely to need an easy node installation package, this was chosen
so that the code can be more easily written and easier to follow. Later version
will be modified for Mac users. The hardest will be reprogramming for 
Windows PowerShell, if ever. The Mac version will require a Docker container 
running Linux (installed automatically by the software). Some of the code 
for that is done, but I decided halfway through coding that to switch over
to Linux. This avoids the complication of trying to do too many things at 
once. Once the Linux version is running smoothly, the Mac version will be 
finished.

BITCOIN CORE VERSION included... 

Bitcoin 24.01

        verification public key: E777299FC265DD04793070EB944D35F9AC3DB76A
        User created: bitcoin
        Group created: bitcoin


DRIVE STRUCTURE (for when Parmanode software is installed with Bitcoin Core):

Internal drive:
               
               /|--- $HOME ---|
                |             |--- .bitcoin                        (may or may not be a symlink)
                |             |--- .parmanode                      (config files)
                |             |--- parmanode ---|
                |                               |--- bitcoin ---|  (keeps B core download and pgp stuff)
                |--- media ---|
                |             |--- parmanode ---|                  (ext drive mountpoint) 
                |                               |--- .bitcoin ---| (symlink target)
                |           
                |--- usr  --- |--- local  ------|--- bin ---|       (keeps bitcoin binary files)


If an external drive is used, a symlink on the internal drive will point to the .bitcoin directory.

               /|--- .bitcoin ---|


HOW TO RUN

Find the latest tag and download/unzip that to a directory on your drive.

To run it, cd into the downloaded directory ("Parmanode"), then type './run_parmanode'
